<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter Eleven</h2>
			<p>George did not delay. Always sound, Hamilton Beamish’s advice appeared to him now even sounder than usual. He rang the bell for Ferris.</p>
			<p>“Oh, Ferris,” said George, “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Beamish thinks you had better stay in the room with the wedding-presents and keep an eye on them.”</p>
			<p>“Very good, sir.”</p>
			<p>“In case somebody tries to steal them, you know.”</p>
			<p>“Just so, sir.”</p>
			<p>Relief, as it always does, had given George a craving for conversation. He wanted to buttonhole some fellow-creature and babble. He would have preferred this fellow-creature to have been anyone but Ferris, for he had not forgotten the early passages of their acquaintanceship and seemed still to sense in the butler’s manner a lingering antipathy. But Ferris was there, so he babbled to him.</p>
			<p>“Nice day, Ferris.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Nice weather.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Nice country round here.”</p>
			<p>“No, sir.”</p>
			<p>George was somewhat taken aback.</p>
			<p>“Did you say, No, sir?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, Yes, sir? I thought you said No, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir. No, sir.”</p>
			<p>“You mean you don’t like the country round here?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Why not?”</p>
			<p>“I disapprove of it, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Why?”</p>
			<p>“It is not the sort of country to which I have been accustomed, sir. It is not like the country round Little-Seeping-in-the-Wold.”</p>
			<p>“Where’s that?”</p>
			<p>“In England, sir.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose the English country’s nice?”</p>
			<p>“I believe it gives uniform satisfaction, sir.”</p>
			<p>George felt damped. In his mood of relief he had hoped that Ferris might have brought himself to sink the butler in the friend.</p>
			<p>“What don’t you like about the country round here?”</p>
			<p>“I disapprove of the mosquitoes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“But there are only a few.”</p>
			<p>“I disapprove of even one mosquito, sir.”</p>
			<p>George tried again.</p>
			<p>“I suppose everybody downstairs is very excited about the wedding, Ferris?”</p>
			<p>“By ‘everybody downstairs’ you allude to⁠ ⁠… ?”</p>
			<p>“The⁠—er⁠—the domestic staff.”</p>
			<p>“I have not canvassed their opinions, sir. I mix very little with my colleagues.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose you disapprove of them?” said George, nettled.</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Why?”</p>
			<p>The butler raised his eyebrows. He preferred the lower middle classes not to be inquisitive. However, he stooped to explain.</p>
			<p>“Many of them are Swedes, sir, and the rest are Irish.”</p>
			<p>“You disapprove of Swedes?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Why?”</p>
			<p>“Their heads are too square, sir.”</p>
			<p>“And you disapprove of the Irish?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Why?”</p>
			<p>“Because they are Irish, sir.”</p>
			<p>George shifted his feet uncomfortably.</p>
			<p>“I hope you don’t disapprove of weddings, Ferris?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Why?”</p>
			<p>“They seem to me melancholy occasions, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Are you married, Ferris?”</p>
			<p>“A widower, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Well, weren’t you happy when you got married?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ferris?”</p>
			<p>“She appeared to take a certain girlish pleasure in the ceremony, sir, but it soon blew over.”</p>
			<p>“How do you account for that?”</p>
			<p>“I could not say, sir.”</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry weddings depress you, Ferris. Surely when two people love each other and mean to go on loving each other.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“Marriage is not a process for prolonging the life of love. It merely mummifies its corpse.”</p>
			<p>“But, Ferris, if there were no marriages, what would become of posterity?”</p>
			<p>“I see no necessity for posterity, sir.”</p>
			<p>“You disapprove of it?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>George walked pensively out on to the drive in front of the house. He was conscious of a diminution of the exuberant happiness which had led him to engage the butler in conversation. He saw clearly now that, Ferris’s conversation being what it was, a bridegroom who engaged him in it on his wedding-day was making a blunder. A suitable, even an ideal, companion for a funeral, Ferris seemed out of harmony when the joy-bells were ringing.</p>
			<p>He looked out upon the pleasant garden with sobered gaze: and, looking, was aware of Sigsbee H. Waddington approaching. Sigsbee’s manner was agitated. He conveyed the impression of having heard bad news or of having made a discovery which disconcerted him.</p>
			<p>“Say, listen!” said Sigsbee H. “What’s that infernal butler doing in the room with the wedding-presents?”</p>
			<p>“Keeping guard over them.”</p>
			<p>“Who told him to?”</p>
			<p>“I did.”</p>
			<p>“Hell’s bells!” said Sigsbee H.</p>
			<p>He gave George a peculiar look and shimmered off. If George had been more in the frame of mind to analyse the looks of his future father-in-law, he might have seen in this one a sort of shuddering loathing. But he was not in the frame of mind. Besides, Sigsbee H. Waddington was not the kind of man whose looks one analysed. He was one of those negligible men whom one pushes out of sight and forgets about. George proceeded to forget about him almost immediately. He was still forgetting about him, when an automobile appeared round the bend of the drive and, stopping beside him, discharged <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Waddington, Molly, and a man with a face like a horse whom, from his clerical costume, George took correctly to be the deputy from Flushing.</p>
			<p>“Molly!” cried George.</p>
			<p>“Here we are, angel,” said Molly.</p>
			<p>“And mother!” said George, with less heartiness.</p>
			<p>“Mother!” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Waddington, with still less heartiness than George.</p>
			<p>“This is the Reverend Gideon Voules,” said Molly. “He is going to marry us.”</p>
			<p>“This,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Waddington, turning to the clergyman and speaking in a voice which seemed to George’s sensitive ear to contain too strong a note of apology, “is the bridegroom.”</p>
			<p>The Reverend Gideon Voules looked at George with a dull and poached-egg-like eye. He did not seem to the latter to be a frightfully cheery sort of person: but, after all, when you’re married, you’re married, no matter how like a poached egg the presiding minister may look.</p>
			<p>“How do you do?” said the <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Gideon.</p>
			<p>“I’m fine,” said George. “How are you?”</p>
			<p>“I am in robust health, I thank you.”</p>
			<p>“Splendid! Nothing wrong with the ankles, eh?”</p>
			<p>The <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Gideon glanced down at them and seemed satisfied with this section of his lower limbs, even though they were draped in white socks.</p>
			<p>“Nothing, thank you.”</p>
			<p>“So many clergymen nowadays,” explained George, “are falling off chairs and spraining them.”</p>
			<p>“I never fall off chairs.”</p>
			<p>“Then you’re just the fellow I’ve been scouring the country for,” said George. “If all clergymen were like you.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Waddington came to life.</p>
			<p>“Would you care for a glass of milk?”</p>
			<p>“No, thank you, mother,” said George.</p>
			<p>“I was not addressing you,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Waddington. “I was speaking to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Voules. He has had a long drive and no doubt requires refreshment.”</p>
			<p>“Of course, of course,” said George. “What am I thinking about? Yes, you must certainly stoke up and preserve your strength. We don’t want you fainting half-way through the ceremony.”</p>
			<p>“He would have every excuse,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Waddington.</p>
			<p>She led the way into the dining-room, where light refreshments were laid out on a side-table⁠—a side-table brightly decorated by the presence of Sigsbee H. Waddington, who was sipping a small gin and tonic and watching with lowering gaze the massive imperturbability of Ferris, the butler. Ferris, though he obviously disapproved of wedding-presents, was keeping a loyal eye on them.</p>
			<p>“What are you doing here, Ferris?” asked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Waddington.</p>
			<p>The butler raised the loyal eye.</p>
			<p>“Guarding the gifts, madam.”</p>
			<p>“Who told you to?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Finch, madam.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Waddington shot a look of disgust at George.</p>
			<p>“There is no necessity whatever.”</p>
			<p>“Very good, madam.”</p>
			<p>“Only an imbecile would have suggested such a thing.”</p>
			<p>“Precisely, madam.”</p>
			<p>The butler retired. Sigsbee Horatio, watching him go, sighed unhappily. What was the good of him going now? felt Sigsbee. From now on the room would be full. Already automobiles were beginning to arrive, and a swarm of wedding-guests had begun to settle upon the refreshments on the side-table.</p>
			<p>The <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Gideon Voules, thoughtfully lowering a milk and ham-sandwich into the abyss, had drawn George into a corner and was endeavouring to make his better acquaintance.</p>
			<p>“I always like to have a little chat with the bridegroom before the ceremony,” he said. “It is agreeable to be able to feel that he is, in a sense, a personal friend.”</p>
			<p>“Very nice of you,” said George, touched.</p>
			<p>“I married a young fellow in Flushing named Miglett the other day⁠—Claude R. Miglett. Perhaps you recall the name?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“Ah! I thought you might have seen it in the papers. They were full of the affair. I always feel that, if I had not made a point of establishing personal relations with him before the ceremony, I should not have been in a position to comfort him as I did after the accident occurred.”</p>
			<p>“Accident?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. The bride was most unfortunately killed by a motor-lorry as they were leaving the church.”</p>
			<p>“Good heavens!”</p>
			<p>“I have always thought it singularly unfortunate. But then it almost seems as if there were some fatality about the weddings at which I officiate. Only a week before, I had married a charming young couple, and both were dead before the month was out. A girder fell on them as they were passing a building which was under construction. In the case of another pair whom I married earlier in the year, the bridegroom contracted some form of low fever. A very fine young fellow. He came out in pink spots. We were all most distressed about it.” He turned to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Waddington, whom an inrush of guests had driven into the corner. “I was telling our young friend here of a rather singular coincidence. In each of the last two weddings at which I officiated the bridegroom died within a few days of the ceremony.”</p>
			<p>A wistful look came into <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Waddington’s face. She seemed to be feeling that luck like that could not hold.</p>
			<p>“I, personally,” she said, “have had a presentiment right from the beginning that this marriage would never take place.”</p>
			<p>“Now, that is very curious,” said the <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Gideon. “I am a strong believer in presentiments.”</p>
			<p>“So am I.”</p>
			<p>“I think they are sent to warn us⁠—to help us to prepare ourselves for disaster.”</p>
			<p>“In the present instance,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Waddington, “the word disaster is not the one I would have selected.”</p>
			<p>George tottered away. Once more there was creeping over him that grey foreboding which had come to him earlier in the day. So reduced was his nervous system that he actually sought comfort in the society of Sigsbee Horatio. After all, he thought, whatever Sigsbee’s shortcomings as a man, he at least was a friend. A philosopher with the future of the race at heart might sigh as he looked upon Sigsbee H. Waddington, but in a bleak world George could not pick and choose his chums.</p>
			<p>A moment later there was forced upon him the unpleasing discovery that in supposing that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Waddington liked him he had been altogether too optimistic. The look which his future father-in-law bestowed upon him as he sidled up was not one of affection. It was the sort of look which, had he been sheriff of Gory Gulch, Arizona, the elder man might have bestowed upon a horse-thief.</p>
			<p>“Darned officious!” rumbled Sigsbee H., in a querulous undertone. “Officious and meddling.”</p>
			<p>“Eh?” said George.</p>
			<p>“Telling that butler to come in here and watch the presents.”</p>
			<p>“But, good heavens, don’t you realise that, if I hadn’t told him, some one might have sneaked in and stolen something?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Waddington’s expression was now that of a cow-boy who, leaping into bed, discovers too late that a frolicsome friend has placed a cactus between the sheets: and George, at the lowest ebb, was about to pass on to the refreshment-table and see if a little potato-salad might not act as a restorative, when there stepped from the crowd gathered round the food a large and ornately dressed person chewing the remains of a slab of caviare on toast. George had a dim recollection of having seen him among the guests at that first dinner-party at Number 16, East Seventy-Ninth Street. His memory had not erred. The new-comer was no less a man than United Beef.</p>
			<p>“Hello there, Waddington,” said United Beef.</p>
			<p>“Ur,” said Sigsbee Horatio. He did not like the other, who had once refused to lend him money and⁠—what was more⁠—had gone to the mean length of quoting Shakespeare to support his refusal.</p>
			<p>“Say, Waddington,” proceeded United Beef, “don’t I seem to remember you coming to me sometime ago and asking about that motion-picture company, the Finer and Better? You were thinking of putting some money in, if I recollect?”</p>
			<p>An expression of acute alarm shot into <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Waddington’s face. He gulped painfully.</p>
			<p>“Not me,” he said hastily. “Not me. Get it out of your nut that it was I who wanted to buy the stuff. I just thought that if the stock was any good my dear wife might be interested.”</p>
			<p>“Same thing.”</p>
			<p>“It is not at all the same thing.”</p>
			<p>“Do you happen to know if your wife bought any?”</p>
			<p>“No, she didn’t. I heard later that the company was no good, so I did not mention it to her.”</p>
			<p>“Too bad,” said United Beef. “Too bad.”</p>
			<p>“What do you mean, too bad?”</p>
			<p>“Well, a rather remarkable thing has happened. Quite a romance in its way. As a motion-picture company the thing was, as you say, no good. Couldn’t seem to do anything right. But yesterday, when a workman started to dig a hole on the lot to put up a ‘For Sale’ sign, I’m darned if he didn’t strike oil.”</p>
			<p>The solid outlines of United Beef shimmered uncertainly before <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Waddington’s horrified eyes.</p>
			<p>“Oil?” he gurgled.</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir. Oil. What looks like turning out the biggest gusher in the south-west.”</p>
			<p>“But⁠—but⁠—do you mean to say, then, that the shares are⁠—are really worth something?”</p>
			<p>“Only millions, that’s all. Merely millions. It’s a pity you didn’t buy some. This caviare,” said United Beef, champing meditatively, “is good. That’s what it is, Waddington⁠—good. I think I’ll have another slice.”</p>
			<p>It is difficult to arrest the progress of a millionaire who is starting off in the direction of caviare, but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Waddington, with a frenzied clutch at the other’s coat-sleeve, succeeded in doing so for a brief instant.</p>
			<p>“When did you hear this?”</p>
			<p>“Just as I was starting out this morning?”</p>
			<p>“Do you think anybody else knows about it?”</p>
			<p>“Everybody down-town, I should say.”</p>
			<p>“But, listen,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Waddington urgently. “Say, listen!” He clung to the caviare-maddened man’s sleeve with a desperate grip. “What I am getting at is, I know a guy⁠—nothing to do with business⁠—who has a block of that stock. Do you think there’s any chance of him not having heard about this?”</p>
			<p>“Quite likely. But, if you’re thinking of getting it off him, you’d better hurry. The story is probably in the evening papers by now.”</p>
			<p>The words acted on Sigsbee H. Waddington like an electric shock. He released the other’s sleeve, and United Beef shot off towards the refreshment-table like a homing pigeon. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Waddington felt in his hip-pocket to make sure that he still possessed the three hundred dollars which he had hoped that day to hand over to Fanny Welch, and bounded out of the room, out of the house, and out of the front gate; and, after bounding along the broad highway to the station, leaped into a train which might have been meeting him there by appointment. Never in his life before had Sigsbee H. Waddington caught a train so expeditiously: and the fact seemed to him a happy omen. He looked forward with a cheery confidence to the interview with that policeman fellow to whom he had⁠—in a moment of mistaken generosity⁠—parted with his precious stock. The policeman had seemed a simple sort of soul, just the sort of man with whom it is so nice to do business. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Waddington began to rehearse the opening speeches of the interview.</p>
			<p>“Say, listen,” he would say. “Say, listen, my dear.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>He sat up in his seat with a jerk. He had completely forgotten the policeman’s name.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
